# 100 Ideas That Changed the Web

### Idea No.19: The Emoticon

*What is a 'flame war' and what does it have to do with emoticons?*

* A 'flame war' refers to when people misinterpret a message, resulting either the original intent of the message benig lost or people being offended. To resolve the confusion, Scott Fahlman, a research professor, implemented emoticon as an expression of whether a post should be taken seriouely. 

<br>
*What's the difference between an emoticon and an emoji? Support your answer with references beyond the book.*

* Emoticons are text-based and emojis are image-based. 
```
^_^   <-- This is an emoticon. 
🙂    <-- This is an emoji. 
```

<br>
### Idea No.24: The JPEG

*Boulton explains that a JPEG file has 'lossy' compression. Explain what this means. List and explain a few other kinds of image file compression and the image file types associated with them.*

* A 'lossy' compression means that the size of a file is reduced by discard a resonable amount of data. 
* .bmp and .tiff files use lossless compression
* .heic is a new image format that uses a new compression algorithm with higher efficiency. 

<br>
### Idea No.45: Metadata

*List and explain a few examples of metadata beyond the examples given in the book.*

* Video files like .mp4 and .mov have metadata that describes the duration, file size, resolution, bitrate, video and audio codec, etc. 
* Compressed files like .zip and .rar have metadata that describes the file size, content list, compression rate, etc. 