# New Ideas/Projects/Technology in the Past Decade

### 3D Printing

The invention of 3D printing completely changed the world. Thanks to 3D printing, we can make almost anything with a computer, a 3D printer and the material for the printer. Although the technology is still limited, and not suitable for mass manufaction, the cost of prototyping was certainly reduced drastically, resulting in more affordable products on the market. 

<br>

### Self-driving Cars

Although self-driving cars are still in a very early stage today, it is definitely one of the technologies that can be drastically imporoved over the next few years. It won't be too long till you can schedule your own car to pick you up instead of riding a taxi. 

<br>

### Machine Learning

Let's face it, computers are stupid, that is, until the concept of machine learning appeared. Machine learning (ML) is the scientific study of algorithms and statistical models that computer systems use to effectively perform a specific task without using explicit instructions, relying on patterns and inference instead. ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning)) With the power of ML, computers can learn to and complete tasks all on their own, without the need of step-by-step insturctions (a.k.a. programming). All they need is an algorithm to get started. 

<br>

### Consumer Biometric Authentication

The first well-known application of biometric authentication on a consumer device was probably the Apple iPhone 5s that included a "Touch ID" (a.k.a. fingerprint) sensor. Since then, more and more mobile phones and even tablets began incorporating a fingerprint sensor for authentication. Besides fingerprint, other biometrics are also used for authentication purposes such as iris and face. Instead of typing your password each time you want to get in your phone, simply putting your finger on the the home button or looking at the screen will get you right in. 

<br>

### Mobile Wallet

From trades to currency, human has come a long way to simplify our payment methods. The invention of credit and debit cards changed people life decades ago, and now there is an add-on to that—mobile payments. Today, you can easily leave your wallet at home and use your phone as the sole payment method to purachase what evern you want. Thanks to the invention of Near-field communication (NFC), mobile phones can act the same as a credit/debit card. In China, even a small vendor on the side of a street would accept mobile payments thanks to the payment systems based on QR Code that has the maximum compatability with mobile devices without the limitation of NFC. 

