# Machine Learning

## Definition

Machine learning (ML) is the scientific study of algorithms and statistical models that computer systems use to effectively perform a specific task without using explicit instructions, relying on patterns and inference instead. It is seen as a subset of artificial intelligence. 

The developers do not need to code step-by-step instructions, they only need to "teach" the computers how to complete certain tasks, and the computers would "figure out" the way to do it, shifting the concentration of programming to writing algorithms, the code to "teach" a computer. 

## Origins

The name "machine learning" was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel.<sup>[[1]](#reference)</sup> In the early days, ML grew out of the quest for artificial intelligence (AI). However, an increasing emphasis on the logical, knowledge-based approach caused a rift between AI and ML. 

Later on, ML was reorganized as a separate field and started to flourish in the 1990s. The field changed its goal from achieving artificial intelligence to tackling solvable problems of a practical nature. It shifted focus away from the symbolic approaches it had inherited from AI, and toward methods and models borrowed from statistics and probability theory.<sup>[[2]](#reference)</sup> It also benefited from the increasing availability of digitized information, and the ability to distribute it via the Internet.


## Reference

> [1] Samuel, A. L. (1959). "Some Studies in Machine Learning Using the Game of Checkers." IBM Journal of Research and Development **3**(3): 210-229. 

> [2] Langley, P. (2011). "The changing science of machine learning." Machine Learning **82**(3): 275-279.